Cluster upgrade tunning in CAPI (#2307)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/tutorials/fleet-management/cluster-management/tunning-cluster-upgrades/index.md

---
title: Avoid disruption of workloads during cluster upgrade
description: The level of disruption caused by cluster upgrades can be influenced per cluster. This article explains how to adjust the number of nodes that is updated simlutaneously, and the wait time between batches of nodes.
weight: 10
menu:
  principal:
    parent: tutorials-fleet-management-clusters
    identifier: tutorials-fleet-management-tunning-cluster-upgrades
user_questions:
  - How can I limit the disruption caused by cluster upgrades?
last_review_date: 2024-10-07
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-phoenix
---

## Introduction

> Cluster upgraded, described in detail in our [cluster upgrades reference]({{< relref "/vintage/platform-overview/cluster-management/cluster-upgrades" >}})), can cause disruption on workloads, if the upgrade requires upgrading worker nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster upgrades, described in detail in our [cluster upgrades reference]({{< relref "/vintage/platform-overview/cluster-management/cluster-upgrades" >}})), can cause disruption on workloads, if the upgrade requires replacement of worker nodes.
```

(and the link goes to `/vintage` – better avoid if we can)

> We provide two ways of limiting the amount of disruption:

Reviewer: From here, this is all outdated and not implemented for CAPI. `AWSMachinePool` takes care of the instance refresh, and its settings dictate what happens. We'd first need to work on making this more stable (e.g. https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm/issues/31843). Or if you want, we can describe the current behavior already and update the article again later. Mind however that it will be provider-specific, since for CAPA we use machine pools, for others we don't.

Author: It is nice to have, but we can wait if it changes soon. When new process is implemented we can work here to make it up to date

---
linkTitle: Fine-tuning upgrade disruption
title: Fine-tuning upgrade disruption on CAPI

> description: The level of disruption caused by cluster upgrades can be influenced per cluster. This article explains how to adjust the number of nodes that is updated simlutaneously, and the wait time between batches of nodes.

Reviewer: We now describe aws-node-termination-handler and other interruption-related things in https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/2459 (_Fleet management > Node pool_ article). Would that replace _this_ page?
